src/main/asciidoc/_chapters/offheap_read_write.adoc, before:

////
/**
 *
 * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
 * or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
 * distributed with this work for additional information
 * regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
 * to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
 * "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
 * with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
 */
////

[[offheap_read_write]]
= RegionServer Offheap Read/Write Path
:doctype: book
:numbered:
:toc: left
:icons: font
:experimental:

[[regionserver.offheap.overview]]
== Overview

For reducing the Java GC impact to P99/P999 RPC latency, HBase 2.x has made the offheap read and write path. The cells are
allocated from JVM offheap memory area, which won’t be garbage collected by JVM and need to be deallocated explicitly by
upstream callers. In the write path, the request packet received from client will be allocated offheap and retained
until those cells are successfully written to the WAL and Memstore. The memory data structure in Memstore does
not directly store the cell memory, but reference to cells which are encoded in multiple chunks in MSLAB,  this is easier
to manage the offheap memory. Similarly, in the read path, we’ll try to read the cache firstly, if the cache
misses, go to the HFile and read the corresponding block. The workflow: from reading blocks to sending cells to
client,  it's basically not involved in on-heap memory allocations.

image::offheap-overview.png[]


[[regionserver.offheap.readpath]]
== Offheap read-path
In HBase-2.0.0, link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-11425[HBASE-11425] changed the HBase read path so it
could hold the read-data off-heap (from BucketCache) avoiding copying of cached data on to the java heap.
This reduces GC pauses given there is less garbage made and so less to clear. The off-heap read path has a performance
that is similar/better to that of the on-heap LRU cache.  This feature is available since HBase 2.0.0.
If the BucketCache is in `file` mode, fetching will always be slower compared to the native on-heap LruBlockCache.
Refer to below blogs for more details and test results on off heaped read path
link:https://blogs.apache.org/hbase/entry/offheaping_the_read_path_in[Offheaping the Read Path in Apache HBase: Part 1 of 2]
and link:https://blogs.apache.org/hbase/entry/offheap-read-path-in-production[Offheap Read-Path in Production - The Alibaba story]

For an end-to-end off-heaped read-path, first of all there should be an off-heap backed <<offheap.blockcache, BucketCache>>. Configure 'hbase.bucketcache.ioengine' to off-heap in
_hbase-site.xml_. Also specify the total capacity of the BucketCache using `hbase.bucketcache.size` config. Please remember to adjust value of 'HBASE_OFFHEAPSIZE' in
_hbase-env.sh_. This is how we specify the max possible off-heap memory allocation for the RegionServer java process.
This should be bigger than the off-heap BC size. Please keep in mind that there is no default for `hbase.bucketcache.ioengine`
which means the BC is turned OFF by default (See <<direct.memory, Direct Memory Usage In HBase>>).

Next thing to tune is the ByteBuffer pool on the RPC server side:

NOTE: the config keys which start with prefix `hbase.ipc.server.reservoir` are deprecated in HBase3.x. If you are still
in HBase2.x, then just use the old config keys. otherwise if in HBase3.x, please use the new config keys.
(See <<regionserver.read.hdfs.block.offheap,deprecated and new configs in HBase3.x>>)

The buffers from this pool will be used to accumulate the cell bytes and create a result cell block to send back to the client side.
`hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.enabled` can be used to turn this pool ON or OFF. By default this pool is ON and available. HBase will create off heap ByteBuffers
and pool them. Please make sure not to turn this OFF if you want end-to-end off-heaping in read path.
If this pool is turned off, the server will create temp buffers on heap to accumulate the cell bytes and make a result cell block. This can impact the GC on a highly read loaded server.
The user can tune this pool with respect to how many buffers are in the pool and what should be the size of each ByteBuffer.
Use the config `hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.initial.buffer.size` to tune each of the buffer sizes. Default is 64 KB for HBase2.x, while it will be changed to 65KB by default for HBase3.x
(see link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-22532[HBASE-22532])

When the result size is larger than one ByteBuffer size, the server will try to grab more than one ByteBuffer and make a result cell block out of these.
When the pool is running out of buffers, the server will end up creating temporary on-heap buffers.

The maximum number of ByteBuffers in the pool can be tuned using the config `hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.initial.max`.
Its value defaults to 64 * region server handlers configured (See the config `hbase.regionserver.handler.count`). The
math is such that by default we consider 2 MB as the result cell block size per read result and each handler will be
handling a read. For 2 MB size, we need 32 buffers each of size 64 KB (See default buffer size in pool). So per handler
32 ByteBuffers(BB). We allocate twice this size as the max BBs count such that one handler can be creating the response
and handing it to the RPC Responder thread and then handling a new request creating a new response cell block (using
pooled buffers). Even if the responder could not send back the first TCP reply immediately, our count should allow that
we should still have enough buffers in our pool without having to make temporary buffers on the heap. Again for smaller
sized random row reads, tune this max count. There are lazily created buffers and the count is the max count to be pooled.

If you still see GC issues even after making end-to-end read path off-heap, look for issues in the appropriate buffer
pool. Check the below RegionServer log with INFO level in HBase2.x:

[source]
----
Pool already reached its max capacity : XXX and no free buffers now. Consider increasing the value for 'hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.initial.max' ?
----

Or the following log message in HBase3.x:

[source]
----
Pool already reached its max capacity : XXX and no free buffers now. Consider increasing the value for 'hbase.server.allocator.max.buffer.count' ?
----

The setting for _HBASE_OFFHEAPSIZE_ in _hbase-env.sh_ should consider this off heap buffer pool at the RPC side also.
We need to config this max off heap size for the RegionServer as a bit higher than the sum of this max pool size and
the off heap cache size. The TCP layer will also need to create direct bytebuffers for TCP communication. Also the DFS
client will need some off-heap to do its workings especially if short-circuit reads are configured. Allocating an extra
of 1 - 2 GB for the max direct memory size has worked in tests.

If you are using co processors and refer the Cells in the read results, DO NOT store reference to these Cells out of
the scope of the CP hook methods. Some times the CPs need store info about the cell (Like its row key) for considering
in the next CP hook call etc. For such cases, pls clone the required fields of the entire Cell as per the use cases.
[ See CellUtil#cloneXXX(Cell) APIs ]

[[regionserver.read.hdfs.block.offheap]]
== Read block from HDFS to offheap directly

In HBase-2.x, the RegionServer will still read block from HDFS to a temporary heap ByteBuffer and then flush to BucketCache's
IOEngine asynchronously, finally it will be an offheap one.  We can still observe much GC pressure when cache hit ratio
is not very high (such as cacheHitRatio ~ 60% ), so in link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-21879[HBASE-21879]
we redesigned the read path and made the HDFS block reading be offheap now. This feature will be available in HBASE-3.0.0.

For more details about the design and performance improvement, please see the link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xSy9axGxafoH-Qc17zbD2Bd--rWjjI00xTWQZ8ZwI_E/edit?usp=sharing[document].
Here we will share some best practice about the performance tuning:

Firstly,  we introduced several configurations about the ByteBuffAllocator (which was abstracted to manage the memory application or release):

1. `hbase.server.allocator.pool.enabled`: means whether the region server will use the pooled offheap ByteBuffer allocator. Its default
value is true. In HBase2.x, we still use the deprecated `hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.enabled` config while we'll use the new
one in HBase3.x.
2. `hbase.server.allocator.minimal.allocate.size`: If the desired byte size is not less than this one, then it will
be allocated as a pooled offheap ByteBuff, otherwise it will be allocated from heap directly because it
is too wasting to allocate from pool with fixed-size ByteBuffers, default value is `hbase.server.allocator.buffer.size/6`.
3. `hbase.server.allocator.max.buffer.count`: The ByteBuffAllocator will have many fixed-size ByteBuffers inside which
are composited as a pool, this config indicate how many buffers are there in the pool. Its default value will be 2MB * 2 * hbase.regionserver.handler.count / 65KB,
the default hbase.regionserver.handler.count is 30, then its value will be 1890.
4. `hbase.server.allocator.buffer.size`: The byte size of each ByteBuffer, default value is 66560 (65KB), here we choose 65KB instead of 64KB
because of link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-22532[HBASE-22532].

The three config keys: `hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.enabled`, `hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.initial.buffer.size` and `hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.initial.max` are introduced in HBase2.x. while in HBase3.x
they are deprecated now, instead please use the new config keys: `hbase.server.allocator.pool.enabled`, `hbase.server.allocator.buffer.size` and `hbase.server.allocator.max.buffer.count`.

If you still use the deprecated three config keys in HBase3.0.0, you will get a WARN log message like:

[source]
----
The config keys hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.initial.buffer.size and hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.initial.max are deprecated now, instead please use hbase.server.allocator.buffer.size and hbase.server.allocator.max.buffer.count. In future release we will remove the two deprecated configs.
----

Second, we have some suggestions about the performance:

.Please make sure that there are enough pooled DirectByteBuffer in your ByteBuffAllocator.

The ByteBuffAllocator will allocate ByteBuffer from DirectByteBuffer pool firstly, if there’s no available ByteBuffer
from the pool,  then it will just allocate the ByteBuffers from heap, then the GC pressures will increase again.

By default, we will pre-allocate 4MB for each RPC handlers ( The handler count is determined by the config:
`hbase.regionserver.handler.count`, it has the default value 30) . That’s to say,  if your `hbase.server.allocator.buffer.size`
is 65KB, then your pool will have 2MB * 2 / 65KB * 30 = 945 DirectByteBuffer.  If you have some large scan and have a big caching,
say you may have a rpc response whose bytes size is greater than 2MB (another 2MB for receiving rpc request),  then it will
be better to increase the `hbase.server.allocator.max.buffer.count`.

The RegionServer web UI also has the statistic about ByteBuffAllocator:

image::bytebuff-allocator-stats.png[]

If the following condition meet, you may need to increase your max buffer.count:

heapAllocationRatio >= hbase.server.allocator.minimal.allocate.size / hbase.server.allocator.buffer.size * 100%

.Please make sure the buffer size is greater than your block size.

We have the default block size=64KB, so almost all of the data block have a block size: 64KB + delta, whose delta is
very small, depends on the size of last KeyValue. If we use the default `hbase.server.allocator.buffer.size`=64KB,
then each block will be allocated as two ByteBuffers:  one 64KB DirectByteBuffer and one HeapByteBuffer with delta bytes,
the HeapByteBuffer will increase the GC pressure. Ideally, we should let the data block to be allocated as one ByteBuffer,
it has simpler data structure, faster access speed, less heap usage. On the other hand, If the blocks are composited by multiple ByteBuffers,
so we have to validate the checksum by an temporary heap copying (see link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-21917[HBASE-21917]), while if it’s a single ByteBuffer,
we can speed the checksum by calling the hadoop' checksum in native lib, it's more faster.

Please also see: link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-22483[HBASE-22483]

[[regionserver.offheap.writepath]]
== Offheap write-path

In HBase 2.0.0, link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-15179[HBASE-15179] made the HBase write path to work off-heap. By default, the MemStores use
MSLAB to avoid memory fragmentation. It creates bigger fixed sized chunks and memstore cell's data will get copied into these chunks. These chunks can be pooled
also and from 2.0.0 the MSLAB (MemStore-Local Allocation Buffer) pool is by default ON. Write off-heaping makes use of the MSLAB pool. It creates MSLAB chunks
as Direct ByteBuffers and pools them. HBase defaults to using no off-heap memory for MSLAB which means that cells are copied to heap chunk in MSLAB by default
rather than off-heap chunk.

`hbase.regionserver.offheap.global.memstore.size` is the configuration key which controls the amount of off-heap data whose value is the number of megabytes
of off-heap memory that should be by MSLAB (e.g. `25` would result in 25MB of off-heap). Be sure to increase `HBASE_OFFHEAPSIZE` which will set the JVM's
MaxDirectMemorySize property. Its default value is 0, means MSLAB use heap chunks.

`hbase.hregion.memstore.mslab.chunksize` controls the size of each off-heap chunk, defaulting to `2097152` (2MB).

When a Cell is added to a MemStore, the bytes for that Cell are copied into these off-heap buffers (if set the `hbase.regionserver.offheap.global.memstore.size` to non-zero)
and a Cell POJO will refer to this memory area. This can greatly reduce the on-heap occupancy of the MemStores and reduce the total heap utilization for RegionServers
in a write-heavy workload. On-heap and off-heap memory utiliazation are tracked at multiple levels to implement low level and high level memory management.
The decision to flush a MemStore considers both the on-heap and off-heap usage of that MemStore. At the Region level, the sum of the on-heap and off-heap usages and
compares them against the region flush size (128MB, by default). Globally, on-heap size occupancy of all memstores are tracked as well as off-heap size. When any of
these sizes breaches the lower mark (`hbase.regionserver.global.memstore.size.lower.limit`) or the maximum size `hbase.regionserver.global.memstore.size`), all
regions are selected for forced flushes.

Commit message:

HBASE-20516 Offheap read-path needs more detail (#1081)
Signed-off-by: Anoop Sam John <anoopsamjohn@apacher.org>
Former-commit-id: 2ed81c645bdf802ca1af31d997b87506409f72c9

src/main/asciidoc/_chapters/offheap_read_write.adoc, after:

////
/**
 *
 * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
 * or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
 * distributed with this work for additional information
 * regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
 * to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
 * "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
 * with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
 */
////

[[offheap_read_write]]
= RegionServer Offheap Read/Write Path
:doctype: book
:numbered:
:toc: left
:icons: font
:experimental:

[[regionserver.offheap.overview]]
== Overview

For reducing the Java GC impact to P99/P999 RPC latency, HBase 2.x has made the offheap read and write path. The cells are
allocated from JVM offheap memory area, which won’t be garbage collected by JVM and need to be deallocated explicitly by
upstream callers. In the write path, the request packet received from client will be allocated offheap and retained
until those cells are successfully written to the WAL and Memstore. The memory data structure in Memstore does
not directly store the cell memory, but reference to cells which are encoded in multiple chunks in MSLAB,  this is easier
to manage the offheap memory. Similarly, in the read path, we’ll try to read the cache firstly, if the cache
misses, go to the HFile and read the corresponding block. The workflow: from reading blocks to sending cells to
client,  it's basically not involved in on-heap memory allocations.

image::offheap-overview.png[]


[[regionserver.offheap.readpath]]
== Offheap read-path
In HBase-2.0.0, link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-11425[HBASE-11425] changed the HBase read path so it
could hold the read-data off-heap (from BucketCache) avoiding copying of cached data on to the java heap.
This reduces GC pauses given there is less garbage made and so less to clear. The off-heap read path can have a performance
that is similar or better to that of the on-heap LRU cache.  This feature is available since HBase 2.0.0.
Refer to below blogs for more details and test results on off heaped read path
link:https://blogs.apache.org/hbase/entry/offheaping_the_read_path_in[Offheaping the Read Path in Apache HBase: Part 1 of 2]
and link:https://blogs.apache.org/hbase/entry/offheap-read-path-in-production[Offheap Read-Path in Production - The Alibaba story]

For an end-to-end off-heaped read-path, all you have to do is enable an off-heap backed <<offheap.blockcache>>(BC). 
Configure _hbase.bucketcache.ioengine_ to be _offheap_ in _hbase-site.xml_ (See <<bc.deploy.modes>> to learn more about _hbase.bucketcache.ioengine_ options).
Also specify the total capacity of the BC using `hbase.bucketcache.size` config. Please remember to adjust value of 'HBASE_OFFHEAPSIZE' in
_hbase-env.sh_ (See <<bc.example>> for help sizing and an example enabling). This configuration is for specifying the maximum
possible off-heap memory allocation for the RegionServer java process. This should be bigger than the off-heap BC size
to accommodate usage by other features making use of off-heap memory such as Server RPC buffer pool and short-circuit
reads (See discussion in <<bc.example>>).

Please keep in mind that there is no default for `hbase.bucketcache.ioengine`
which means the BC is OFF by default (See <<direct.memory>>). 

This is all you need to do to enable off-heap read path. Most buffers in HBase are already off-heap. With BC off-heap,
the read pipeline will copy data between HDFS and the server socket send of the results back to the client.

[[regionserver.offheap.rpc.bb.tuning]]
===== Tuning the RPC buffer pool
It is possible to tune the ByteBuffer pool on the RPC server side
used to accumulate the cell bytes and create result cell blocks to send back to the client side.
`hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.enabled` can be used to turn this pool ON or OFF. By default this pool is ON and available. HBase will create off-heap ByteBuffers
and pool them them by default. Please make sure not to turn this OFF if you want end-to-end off-heaping in read path.

NOTE: the config keys which start with prefix `hbase.ipc.server.reservoir` are deprecated in HBase3.x. If you are still
in HBase2.x, then just use the old config keys. otherwise if in HBase3.x, please use the new config keys.
(See <<regionserver.read.hdfs.block.offheap,deprecated and new configs in HBase3.x>>)

If this pool is turned off, the server will create temp buffers on heap to accumulate the cell bytes and
make a result cell block. This can impact the GC on a highly read loaded server.
Next thing to tune is the ByteBuffer pool on the RPC server side:

The user can tune this pool with respect to how many buffers are in the pool and what should be the size of each ByteBuffer.
Use the config `hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.initial.buffer.size` to tune each of the buffer sizes. Default is 64 KB for HBase2.x, while it will be changed to 65KB by default for HBase3.x
(see link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-22532[HBASE-22532])

When the result size is larger than one ByteBuffer size, the server will try to grab more than one ByteBuffer and make a result cell block out of these.
When the pool is running out of buffers, the server will end up creating temporary on-heap buffers.

The maximum number of ByteBuffers in the pool can be tuned using the config `hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.initial.max`.
Its value defaults to 64 * region server handlers configured (See the config `hbase.regionserver.handler.count`). The
math is such that by default we consider 2 MB as the result cell block size per read result and each handler will be
handling a read. For 2 MB size, we need 32 buffers each of size 64 KB (See default buffer size in pool). So per handler
32 ByteBuffers(BB). We allocate twice this size as the max BBs count such that one handler can be creating the response
and handing it to the RPC Responder thread and then handling a new request creating a new response cell block (using
pooled buffers). Even if the responder could not send back the first TCP reply immediately, our count should allow that
we should still have enough buffers in our pool without having to make temporary buffers on the heap. Again for smaller
sized random row reads, tune this max count. There are lazily created buffers and the count is the max count to be pooled.

If you still see GC issues even after making end-to-end read path off-heap, look for issues in the appropriate buffer
pool. Check the below RegionServer log with INFO level in HBase2.x:

[source]
----
Pool already reached its max capacity : XXX and no free buffers now. Consider increasing the value for 'hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.initial.max' ?
----

Or the following log message in HBase3.x:

[source]
----
Pool already reached its max capacity : XXX and no free buffers now. Consider increasing the value for 'hbase.server.allocator.max.buffer.count' ?
----

The setting for _HBASE_OFFHEAPSIZE_ in _hbase-env.sh_ should consider this off heap buffer pool at the RPC side also.
We need to config this max off heap size for the RegionServer as a bit higher than the sum of this max pool size and
the off heap cache size. The TCP layer will also need to create direct bytebuffers for TCP communication. Also the DFS
client will need some off-heap to do its workings especially if short-circuit reads are configured. Allocating an extra
of 1 - 2 GB for the max direct memory size has worked in tests.

If you are using co processors and refer the Cells in the read results, DO NOT store reference to these Cells out of
the scope of the CP hook methods. Some times the CPs need store info about the cell (Like its row key) for considering
in the next CP hook call etc. For such cases, pls clone the required fields of the entire Cell as per the use cases.
[ See CellUtil#cloneXXX(Cell) APIs ]

[[regionserver.read.hdfs.block.offheap]]
== Read block from HDFS to offheap directly

In HBase-2.x, the RegionServer will still read block from HDFS to a temporary heap ByteBuffer and then flush to BucketCache's
IOEngine asynchronously, finally it will be an offheap one.  We can still observe much GC pressure when cache hit ratio
is not very high (such as cacheHitRatio ~ 60% ), so in link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-21879[HBASE-21879]
we redesigned the read path and made the HDFS block reading be offheap now. This feature will be available in HBASE-3.0.0.

For more details about the design and performance improvement, please see the link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xSy9axGxafoH-Qc17zbD2Bd--rWjjI00xTWQZ8ZwI_E/edit?usp=sharing[document].
Here we will share some best practice about the performance tuning:

Firstly,  we introduced several configurations about the ByteBuffAllocator (which was abstracted to manage the memory application or release):

1. `hbase.server.allocator.pool.enabled`: means whether the region server will use the pooled offheap ByteBuffer allocator. Its default
value is true. In HBase2.x, we still use the deprecated `hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.enabled` config while we'll use the new
one in HBase3.x.
2. `hbase.server.allocator.minimal.allocate.size`: If the desired byte size is not less than this one, then it will
be allocated as a pooled offheap ByteBuff, otherwise it will be allocated from heap directly because it
is too wasting to allocate from pool with fixed-size ByteBuffers, default value is `hbase.server.allocator.buffer.size/6`.
3. `hbase.server.allocator.max.buffer.count`: The ByteBuffAllocator will have many fixed-size ByteBuffers inside which
are composited as a pool, this config indicate how many buffers are there in the pool. Its default value will be 2MB * 2 * hbase.regionserver.handler.count / 65KB,
the default hbase.regionserver.handler.count is 30, then its value will be 1890.
4. `hbase.server.allocator.buffer.size`: The byte size of each ByteBuffer, default value is 66560 (65KB), here we choose 65KB instead of 64KB
because of link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-22532[HBASE-22532].

The three config keys: `hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.enabled`, `hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.initial.buffer.size` and `hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.initial.max` are introduced in HBase2.x. while in HBase3.x
they are deprecated now, instead please use the new config keys: `hbase.server.allocator.pool.enabled`, `hbase.server.allocator.buffer.size` and `hbase.server.allocator.max.buffer.count`.

If you still use the deprecated three config keys in HBase3.0.0, you will get a WARN log message like:

[source]
----
The config keys hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.initial.buffer.size and hbase.ipc.server.reservoir.initial.max are deprecated now, instead please use hbase.server.allocator.buffer.size and hbase.server.allocator.max.buffer.count. In future release we will remove the two deprecated configs.
----

Second, we have some suggestions about the performance:

.Please make sure that there are enough pooled DirectByteBuffer in your ByteBuffAllocator.

The ByteBuffAllocator will allocate ByteBuffer from DirectByteBuffer pool firstly, if there’s no available ByteBuffer
from the pool,  then it will just allocate the ByteBuffers from heap, then the GC pressures will increase again.

By default, we will pre-allocate 4MB for each RPC handlers ( The handler count is determined by the config:
`hbase.regionserver.handler.count`, it has the default value 30) . That’s to say,  if your `hbase.server.allocator.buffer.size`
is 65KB, then your pool will have 2MB * 2 / 65KB * 30 = 945 DirectByteBuffer.  If you have some large scan and have a big caching,
say you may have a rpc response whose bytes size is greater than 2MB (another 2MB for receiving rpc request),  then it will
be better to increase the `hbase.server.allocator.max.buffer.count`.

The RegionServer web UI also has the statistic about ByteBuffAllocator:

image::bytebuff-allocator-stats.png[]

If the following condition meet, you may need to increase your max buffer.count:

heapAllocationRatio >= hbase.server.allocator.minimal.allocate.size / hbase.server.allocator.buffer.size * 100%

.Please make sure the buffer size is greater than your block size.

We have the default block size=64KB, so almost all of the data block have a block size: 64KB + delta, whose delta is
very small, depends on the size of last KeyValue. If we use the default `hbase.server.allocator.buffer.size`=64KB,
then each block will be allocated as two ByteBuffers:  one 64KB DirectByteBuffer and one HeapByteBuffer with delta bytes,
the HeapByteBuffer will increase the GC pressure. Ideally, we should let the data block to be allocated as one ByteBuffer,
it has simpler data structure, faster access speed, less heap usage. On the other hand, If the blocks are composited by multiple ByteBuffers,
so we have to validate the checksum by an temporary heap copying (see link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-21917[HBASE-21917]), while if it’s a single ByteBuffer,
we can speed the checksum by calling the hadoop' checksum in native lib, it's more faster.

Please also see: link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-22483[HBASE-22483]

[[regionserver.offheap.writepath]]
== Offheap write-path

In HBase 2.0.0, link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HBASE-15179[HBASE-15179] made the HBase write path to work off-heap. By default, the MemStores use
MSLAB to avoid memory fragmentation. It creates bigger fixed sized chunks and memstore cell's data will get copied into these chunks. These chunks can be pooled
also and from 2.0.0 the MSLAB (MemStore-Local Allocation Buffer) pool is by default ON. Write off-heaping makes use of the MSLAB pool. It creates MSLAB chunks
as Direct ByteBuffers and pools them. HBase defaults to using no off-heap memory for MSLAB which means that cells are copied to heap chunk in MSLAB by default
rather than off-heap chunk.

`hbase.regionserver.offheap.global.memstore.size` is the configuration key which controls the amount of off-heap data whose value is the number of megabytes
of off-heap memory that should be by MSLAB (e.g. `25` would result in 25MB of off-heap). Be sure to increase `HBASE_OFFHEAPSIZE` which will set the JVM's
MaxDirectMemorySize property. Its default value is 0, means MSLAB use heap chunks.

`hbase.hregion.memstore.mslab.chunksize` controls the size of each off-heap chunk, defaulting to `2097152` (2MB).

When a Cell is added to a MemStore, the bytes for that Cell are copied into these off-heap buffers (if set the `hbase.regionserver.offheap.global.memstore.size` to non-zero)
and a Cell POJO will refer to this memory area. This can greatly reduce the on-heap occupancy of the MemStores and reduce the total heap utilization for RegionServers
in a write-heavy workload. On-heap and off-heap memory utiliazation are tracked at multiple levels to implement low level and high level memory management.
The decision to flush a MemStore considers both the on-heap and off-heap usage of that MemStore. At the Region level, the sum of the on-heap and off-heap usages and
compares them against the region flush size (128MB, by default). Globally, on-heap size occupancy of all memstores are tracked as well as off-heap size. When any of
these sizes breaches the lower mark (`hbase.regionserver.global.memstore.size.lower.limit`) or the maximum size `hbase.regionserver.global.memstore.size`), all
regions are selected for forced flushes.
